>> Woodruff: THE HUNT FOR DEBRIS
FROM THAT MISSING MALAYSIAN
JETLINER CAME UP EMPTY-HANDED
AGAIN TODAY, ALMOST TWO WEEKS
AFTER IT VANISHED FROM RADAR.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
AS RESCUE TEAMS KEEP SCOURING
THE INDIAN OCEAN BY AIR AND BY
SEA FOR THE PLANE, MILES O'BRIEN
LOOKS INTO THE EFFORT TO GET
LITERALLY MILLIONS OF PEOPLE TO
JOIN IN THE SEARCH.
>> THIS SEARCH FOR THE MALAYSIAN
AIRLINER IS JUST THE LATEST
MANIFESTATION OF A POWERFUL MIX
OF SPACE, COMPUTER AND MOBILE
TECHNOLOGY COUPLED WITH SOCIAL
NETWORKING AND A PLAIN OLD HUMAN
DESIRE TO HELP OTHERS IN NEED.
>> Woodruff: THEN, MARGARET
WARNER SAMPLES THE MOOD IN
EASTERN UKRAINE WHERE PRO AND
TORY-- RUN
HIGH FOLLOWING NEARBY CRIMEA'S
REUNION WITH RUSSIA.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE TO
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME  THEOF
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: TWO WEEKS ON AND
SEARCHERS TODAY APPEARED NO
CLOSER THAN EVER TO FINDING THE
MISSING MALAYSIA AIRLINES PLANE.
HOPES HAD BEEN RAISED AFTER A
SATELLITE SPOTTED TWO LARGE
OBJECTS IN A REMOTE REGION OF
THE SOUTHERN INDIAN OCEAN, MORE
THAN 1,500 MILES SOUTHWEST OF
PERTH, AUSTRALIA.
SEARCH PLANES CRISS-CROSSED PART
OF THE AREA TODAY AND
AUSTRALIA'S ACTING PRIME
MINISTER PROMISED TO CONTINUE
THE EFFORT.
BUT HE CAUTIONED THAT IT'S
DIFFICULT.
>> SOMETHING THAT WAS FLOATING
ON THE SEA THAT LONG AGO MAY NO
LONGER BE FLOATING, IT MAY HAVE
SLIPPED TO THE BOTTOM.
IT'S ALSO CERTAIN THAT ANY
DEBRIS OR OTHER MATERIAL WOULD
HAVE MOVED A SIGNIFICANT
DISTANCE OVER THAT TIME,
POTENTIALLY HUNDREDS OF
KILOMETERS.
>> Woodruff: CHINESE AND
JAPANESE AIRCRAFT WILL JOIN THE
SEARCH THIS WEEKEND.
AT THE SAME TIME, PEOPLE AROUND
THE GLOBE ARE PORING OVER
SATELLITE PHOTOS, HOPING TO FIND
CLUES TO THE PLANE'S FATE.
SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT MILES
O'BRIEN LOOKS AT THE CROWD-
SOURCING EFFORT, RIGHT AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
THE CRISIS OVER UKRAINE PLAYED
OUT IN DUELING PEN STROKES
TODAY.
IN BRUSSELS, THE EUROPEAN UNION
SIGNED AN AGREEMENT WITH
UKRAINE, INCLUDING DEFENSE AND
TRADE COOPERATION.
THE E.U. ALSO SLAPPED SANCTIONS
ON A DOZEN MORE OFFICIALS IN
RUSSIA AND CRIMEA.
AT ALMOST THE SAME MOMENT IN
MOSCOW THE PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA
COMPLETED THE ANNEXATION OF
CRIMEA.
JOHN IRVINE OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
>> THEY ALREADY HAVE IT SEALED
AND DELIVERED.
SO TODAY VLADIMIR PUTIN SIGNED
FOR THE PARCEL OF LAND THAT IS
CRIMEA.
(MUSIC)
WHETHER THE PENINSULA BELONGS IN
RUSSIAN HANDS DEPENDS ON YOUR
POINT OF VIEW.
IN CRIMEA ITSELF, MANY UKRAINIAN
SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN SENT PACKING.
RUSSIAN SOLDIERS, THE ENEMY AT
THE GREAT ARE LOOKING OUT, NOT
IN, THEY'VE TAKEN OVER MOST
MILITARY BASES HERE, TODAY BEING
THE DEADLINE FOR UKRAINIAN
TROOPS TO LEAVE.
AT ONE BARRACKS WHERE THE
TRANSITION WAS STILL HAPPENING,
THE MISMATCH WAS OBVIOUS.
THE RUSSIANS HAD ARMOR AND THE
UKRAINIANS VERY LITTLE.
A UKRAINIAN COLONEL CAME OUT AND
TOLD US THAT HE'D BEEN ORDERED
TO GET HIS MEN TO REMOVE ALL
THEIR BELONGINGS.
WITH THE VICTOR WITHIN EARSHOT,
THEY AGREED IT WAS A SAD DAY
INDEED.
IT'S HARD NOT TO FEEL SORRY FOR
THE UKRAINIAN SOLDIERS BECAUSE
IN LESS THAN A MONTH THEY'VE
GONE FROM BEING HOME GUARD TO
FALLEN FORCES.
THE LAND THEY SWORE AN OATH TO
DEFEND HAS SWITCHED SIDES AND
NOW THEY'VE GOT A CHOICE TO DO
THE SAME OR LEAVE CRIMEA.
ONE PLACE WHERE A RUSSIAN SIEGE
IS YET TO CAUSE COMPLETE
CAPITULATION IS SEVASTOPAL.
BY SCUTTLING IN STRATEGIC
PLACES, THE RUSSIANS INSURED
THAT UKRAINIAN WARSHIPS ARE KEPT
IN PORT, BUT GETTING THE
UKRAINIANS TO SURRENDER ALL
THESE VALUABLE ASSETS MAY YET
TAKE SOME TIME.
ON THE CORN COAT TERRAT THAT IS
UKRAINIAN LAND THE CAP NO LONGER
FITS.
UKRAINIAN TROOPS ARE YESTERDAY'S
MAN.
TODAY MANY SEND ECC
OFFER TO SWITCH SIDES.
THIS IS RUSSIAN SOLDIER DIGGING
RUSSIAN SOUL.
>> Woodruff
>> Woodruff: IN MOSCOW THIS
EVENING, FIREWORKS MARKED THE
ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA.
BUT THE CELEBRATING MASKED
CONCERNS ABOUT SANCTIONS AS
RUSSIAN FINANCIAL MARKETS LOST
GROUND AGAIN.
MEANWHILE, U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR SUSAN RICE
VOICED CONCERNS ABOUT RUSSIAN
MILITARY MOVEMENTS NEAR UKRAINE.
WE'LL HAVE A REPORT FROM
MARGARET WARNER IN EASTERN
UKRAINE LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
IN IRAQ, NEARLY 30 PEOPLE DIED
IN A WAVE OF VIOLENCE TODAY.
MOST OF THE ATTACKS TARGETED
SECURITY FORCES NORTH OF
BAGHDAD.
MEANWHILE WEST OF THE CAPITAL, A
SUICIDE BOMBER STRUCK THE
FUNERAL FOR A LEADER OF AN ANTI-
AL-QAEDA MILITIA.
THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY HAS
APPARENTLY FAILED IN A BID TO
BLOCK ACCESS TO TWITTER.
TECH SAVVY USERS FOUND WAYS
TODAY TO CIRCUMVENT THE EFFORT.
PRIME MINISTER RECEP TAYYIP
ERDOGAN HAD CALLED FOR BANNING
THE SOCIAL MEDIA NETWORK.
A TURKISH NEWSPAPER EDITOR SAYS
IT'S BECAUSE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
TWEETING LINKS TO RECORDINGS
THAT IMPLICATE ERDOGAN IN
CORRUPTION.
>> ( translated ): BECAUSE SOUND
RECORDINGS AND VIDEOS WERE
SPREAD THROUGH TWITTER, MORE
PRECISELY, SINCE COMMUNICATION
THROUGH TWITTER IS VERY STRONG,
THEY SEE IT AS AN ENEMY.
ERDOGAN SAID BEFORE: "THERE IS
AN EVIL CALLED TWITTER."
YESTERDAY IT WAS CLOSED HOURS
AFTER HE SAID THAT HE WOULD
CLOSE IT.
>> Woodruff: THE BAN EVEN
SPARKED DIVISIONS WITHIN THE
GOVERNMENT AS TURKEY'S PRESIDENT
ABDULLAH GUL TWEETED HIS
OPPOSITION TO IT.
FIRST LADY MICHELLE OBAMA
FORMALLY BEGAN A WEEK-LONG,
GOODWILL VISIT TO CHINA TODAY.
SHE MET WITH CHINESE PRESIDENT
XI JINPING PENG AND HIS WIFE
PENG LIYUAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HER
TWO DAUGHTERS AND MOTHER.
THE FIRST LADY ALSO VISITED
SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS AND EVEN
PLAYED SOME PING PONG.
LATER, SHE TOURED BEIJING'S
FORBIDDEN CITY.
AMERICAN FIRST LADIES HAVE
VISITED CHINA 15 TIMES OVER THE
YEARS, BUT MRS. OBAMA IS THE
FIRST TO BE INVITED ON HER OWN.
THAILAND WILL HAVE TO HOLD NEW
GENERAL ELECTIONS AFTER THE
COUNTRY'S CONSTITUTIONAL COURT
ANNULLED LAST MONTH'S RESULTS.
THE JUDGES RULED ALL VOTING
SHOULD HAVE BEEN ON THE SAME
DAY.
THAT WASN'T POSSIBLE BECAUSE OF
ANTI-GOVERNMENT PROTESTS IN SOME
AREAS.
THE DEMONSTRATORS, WHO CONTINUE
TO OCCUPY PART OF THE CAPITAL
CITY, HAVE DEMANDED THAT PRIME
MINISTER YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA
STEP DOWN.
THE BANKRUPT BITCOIN EXCHANGE
CALLED MOUNT GOX HAS BEEN GOING
THROUGH ITS POCKETS AND TURNED
UP A FORTUNE IN THE DIGITAL
CURRENCY.
THE TOKYO-BASED COMPANY SAYS IT
DISCOVERED 200,000 BITCOINS
THOUGHT TO BE MISSING.
THAT HAS A VALUE OF ABOUT
$120-MILLION.
THE FUNDS WERE IN OLD FORMAT
DIGITAL FOLDERS OR ELECTRONIC
WALLETS.
SOME 650,000 BITCOINS REINMA
UNACCOUNTED FOR.
WALL STREET FADED ON THIS
FRIDAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 28 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,302.
THE NASDAQ FELL 42 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,276.
AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED FIVE
POINTS TO FINISH AT 1,866.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW AND THE
S&P GAINED ABOUT ONE AND A HALF
PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ ROSE .7%
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
MILES O'BRIEN ON THE MILLIONS
USING SATELLITE IMAGES TO HELP
FIND THE MISSING JETLINER, RACE
AND INEQUITY IN AMERICA'S
EDUCATION SYSTEM, MARGARET
WARNER SAMPLES THE PUBLIC'S MOOD
IN EASTERN UKRAINE, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S
NEWS, PLUS, A FAMED IRISH AUTHOR
TAKES ON AMERICAN CRIME FICTION.
>> Woodruff: FOR NOW, THE MOST
USEFUL LEAD IN THE SEARCH FOR
THE MISSING AIRLINER HAS BEEN
THOSE SATELLITE IMAGES OF
POSSIBLE DEBRIS.
BUT NOTHING HAS BEEN CONFIRMED
YET.
AND EVEN AS THE HUNT CONTINUES,
PEOPLE AROUND THE GLOBE ARE
TRYING TO DO THEIR SHARE TO HELP
AID IN THE SEARCH BY UTILIZING
TECHNOLOGY.
NEWSHOUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN HAS OUR REPORT.
>> IT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE WE
DON'T EVEN KNOW WHERE THE
HAYSTACK IS.
IT COULD BE HERE, IT COULD BE
HERE, IT COULD BE HERE.
>> Reporter: THIS IS WHAT SPARE
TIME LOOKS LIKE FOR JENNY
PETERSON THESE DAYS.
>> MAKES IT SEEM LIKE A GAME,
ALMOST.
AND BEING A FORMER GAMER, IT'S
ALMOST LIKE YOU'RE ON A QUEST.
>> Reporter: SHE IS ON A QUEST
TO FIND THAT MISSING MALAYSIAN
AIRLINER WITHOUT EVER LEAVING
HER HOME IN THE WASHINGTON DC
AREA.
>> PEOPLE HAVE ALSO FOUND
WHALES.
I FOUND A WHALE.
SO, IT'S ACTUALLY PRETTY-- I
DON'T WANT TO SAY IT'S FUN, BUT
IT IS KIND OF FUN TO GET NEW
PICTURES EVERYDAY AND TO UNCOVER
THINGS.
BECAUSE YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL
BE THERE.
AND SO YOU JUST WANT TO KEEP
GOING AND UNCOVER THE WHOLE
PICTURE.
>> Reporter: SHE IS ONE OF MORE
THAN THREE MILLION PEOPLE WHO
HAVE VOLUNTEERED THEIR TIME TO
PORE OVER SATELLITE IMAGERY OF
THE SEARCH AREAS TO SEE IF THERE
IS ANYTHING UNUSUAL, ANY SIGN OF
THE MISSING BOEING 777.
>> YOU WANT TO BE ABLE TO DO
SOMETHING, BUT YOU CAN'T BECAUSE
YOU'RE NOT IN THE LINE OF WORK,
YOU'RE ACROSS THE WORLD, YOU
HAVE FAMILY OR WHATEVER, AGAIN
YOU CAN'T JUST UP AND LEAVE AND
VOLUNTEER FOR THE RED CROSS.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
DO.
>> Reporter: JENNY IS SEARCHING
ON THE TOMNOD SITE RUN BY
DIGITAL GLOBE.
THE COLORADO COMPANY AUIRECQS
AND SELLS SATELLITE IMAGERY
CAPTURED BY A FLEET OF FIVE
SATELLITES IN POLAR ORBITS.
WHEN THEY PASS OVER THE REGION,
THOSE SATELLITES-- THE MOST
POWERFUL AVAILABLE OUTSIDE OF
THE CLASSIFIED WORLD-- ARE NOW
FOCUSED ON THE HUGE AREA WHERE
THEY ARE SEARCHING FOR THE
MISSING AIRPLANE.
THEY RELEASE THE IMAGES ON THE
WEBSITE AS QUICKLY AS THEY CAN
CONTRIBUTE ANALYSIS OVER TO THE
CROWD.
>> SO FAR, ANYTHING YOU CAN USE,
SATELLITE IMAGERY MAKES IT
BETTER.
>> Reporter: BARRINGTON IS
SENIOR MANAGER AT DIGITAL GLOBE.
HE EXPLAINS HOW THE SEARCH
WORKS.
>> IF YOU SEE ANYTHING
INTERESTING, IF YOU THINK THAT
IT MIGHT BE EVIDENCE OF THE
CRASH OR OF THE WRECKAGE, OR A
LIFE RAFT OR AN OIL SLICK,
ANYTHING THAT COULD BE USEFUL,
YOU SIMPLY CLICK ON IT IN YOUR
WEB BROWSER AND THAT TAG GETS
RECORDED.
AND WHAT WE FIND IS IF YOU AGREE
WITH TEN OR 100 OTHER PEOPLE WHO
HAVE ALL INDEPENDENTLY SEEN THAT
SAME LOCATION IN THEIR OWN WEB
BROWSER, WE START TO IDENTIFY
THESE LOCATIONS WITH CONSENSUS,
AND THAT'S WHERE THE REAL
INFORMATION COMES OUT.
THAT'S THE WISDOM OF THE CROWD.
THAT IS CROWD SOURCING.
>> Reporter: ONCE THE CROWD
AGREES, THE OBJECT IN QUESTION
IS PASSED ALONG TO THE REAL
EXPERTS WHO THEN DETERMINE IF IT
IS SOMETHING THAT CAN BE
ELIMINED OATR AN URGENT
DESTINATION FOR SEARCH AND
RESCUE AIRCRAFT.
THIS CROWD SOURCED SEARCH FOR
THE MALAYSIAN AIRLINER IS JUST
THE LATEST MANIFESTATION OF A
POWERFUL MIX OF SPACE COMPUTER
AND MOBILE TECHNOLOGY COUPLED
WITH SOCIAL NETWORKING AND THE
PLAIN OLD HUMAN DESIRE TO HELP
OTHERS IN NEED.
>> SO WE STOP THIS NONSENSE OF,
WE WAIT FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO
HELP.
THIS FIRE TRUCK APPROACH TO
QUICKLY PUTTING OUT THE FIRES.
WHY DON'T WE BECOME CITIZENRS O?
>> Reporter: PATRICK MEIER HAD
THAT EPIPHANY IN THE IMMEDIATE
WAKE OF THE HAITI EARTHQUAKE OF
2010.
AT THE TIME WORKING ON AN
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Ph.D. AT
TUFTS UNIVERSITY, HE GATHERED
SOME FRIENDS TOGETHER IN HIS
LIVING ROOM TO BRAINSTORM WAYS
TO HARNESS THE INFORMATION
GENERATED THROUGH SOCIAL
NETWORKING IN THE WAKE OF THE
DISASTER SO THAT THE
HUMANITARIAN RESPONSE WILL BE
MORE EFFECTIVE.
HE IS AN EARLY AND LEADING
ADVOCATE OF THE POWER OF CROWD
SOURCED MAPPING.
>> HUMANITARIAN PROFESSIONALS,
PAID PROFESSIONALS CANNOT BE
EVERYWHERE AT THE SAME TIME.
BUT THE CROWD CAN, THE CROWD IS
ALWAYS THERE AND THE CROWD HAS
AGENCY AND THEY'RE GOING TO
RESPOND A LOT FASTER.
YOU'RE GETTING REAL TIME
INFORMATION FROM SORT OF BIRDS
EYE VIEW ANGLE OF WHO'S BEEN
AFFECTED, HOW BADLY AND WHERE.
SO A LOT OF HUMANITARIAN
ORGANIZATIONS, WHEN YOU START
TALKING TO THEM ABOUT, HEY, IT'S
LIKE HAVING A HELICOPTER, GET IT
A BIT MORE ABOUT WHAT THE ADDED
VALUE MIGHT BE.
>> Reporter: EVEN SO, MANY
HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS WERE
INITIALLY SKEPTICAL OF PATRICK
AND HIS BAND OF ENTHUSIASTIC,
YOUNG, TECHNOLOGICALLY SAVVY
FRIENDS.
BUT OVER TIME, THE UNITED
NATIONS, THE RED CROSS AND OTHER
LARGE HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS
BECAME TRUE BELIEVERS.
THE U.N. HAS CREATED SOMETHING
CALLED THE DIGITAL HUMANITARIAN
NETWORK TO HELP CAPTURE ALL THE
URGENT TWEETS AND TEXTS, MAP
THEM AND TRY TO CONNECT THE
PLEAS FOR HELP WITH SOMEONE WHO
CAN.
>> YOU HAVE THIS BIG DATA AND
WHAT WE'RE ALL REALIZING,
HUMANITARIANS, TECHNOLOGISTS
ALIKE IS THE OVERFLOW OF
INFORMATION GENERATED DURING
DISASTERS CAN BE AS PARALYZING
TO HUMANITARIAN RESPONSE AS THE
ABSENCE OF INFORMATION.
>> Reporter: AND THEY ENLIST THE
CROWD TO MAKE ACCURATE MAPS THAT
REFLECT THE DAMAGE.
>> THE BEST WAY TO VISUALIZE
THAT IS YOU IMAGINE A HAYSTACK
THAT'S BEEN PUT TOGETR INHE A
SQUARE FORM, IN A CUBE AND YOU
BASICALLY THEN SLICE UP THE
HAYSTACK IN TINY LITTLE CUBES
AND EVERY VOLUNTEER TAKES CARE
OF THEIR LITTLE PART OF THE
HAYSTACK, AND THEY ALL DO IT AT
THE SAME TIME.
THAT'S FAR MORE EFFICIENT.
>> Reporter: THE DIGITAL
HUMANITARIAN NETWORK WAS LAST
MOBILIZED IN THE PHILIPPINES IN
THE WAKE OF TYPHOON HAIYAN.
MANING SAMBALE WAS A LUNTVOEER
WITH OPENSTREETMAP, AN OPEN
SOURCE COLLABORATION THAT IS THE
WIKIPEDIA OF MAPPING.
>> FOR THE MAPPING, WE HAVE
ASKED PEOPLE ALL OVER THE WORLD
TO TRACE FEATURES, MAP FEATURES
USING SATELLITE IMAGERY.
>> Reporter: MORE THAN 1,600
VOLUNTEERS PROVIDED FOUR AND
THREE-QUARTER MILLION UPDATES TO
MAPS OF THE TACLOBAN REGION IN
LESS THAN A MONTH.
THE VOLUNTEERS LOOKED AT
SATELLITE IMAGERY CAPTURED AFTER
THE STORM AND TRACED OUT THE
FOOTPRINT OF HOMES AND BUILDINGS
TO GIVE RELIEF WORKERS MAPS THAT
ACCURATELY REFLECTED THEIR
DEVASTATED SURROUNDINGS.
>> IT'S THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE
MAP THEY WERE ABLE TO SEE A WEEK
AFTER THE TYPHOON.
THERE WERE OTHER MAPS THAT WERE
THERE ON THE GROUND, BUT THE
DIFFERENCE IS WE HAVE THIS
DETAIL ON THE STREET LEVEL.
>> Reporter: BUT DOES IT WORK?
DOES IT REALLY SAVE LIVES?
RELIEF WORKERS IN THE
PHILIPPINES OR IN HAITI TELL YOU
YES.
AND AT DIGITAL GLOBE, THEY CLAIM
SOME SUCCESS AS WELL ALTHOUGH
NOT ALWAYS WITH A HAPPY ENDING.
THEY INSTIGATED A CROWD SOURCED
SEARCH FOR TWO LOST HIKERS IN
THE PERUVIAN ANDES IN 2012.
THE CROWD FOUND THEM, BUT
UNFORTUNATELY THEY WERE ALREADY
DED.A
IN IT IS WHAT HAS PEOPLE LIKE
JENNY PETERSON TO KEEP LOOKING
AT SWATHS OF THE INDIAN OCEAN
NIGHT AFTER NIGHT.
>> EVEN IF YOU CAN'T SAY, OH, I
FOUND SOMETHING, FINDING NOTHING
IS STILL FINDING SOMETHING.
YOU KNOW THAT YOU DON'T HAVE TO
EXPEND RESOURCES TO SEARCH IN
THAT AREA WHEN YOU DON'T SEE
ANYTHING THERE, AND IF I FAN OUT
FOUR METERS TO SEARCH AND LET
THEM FOCUS ON THE AREAS THAT ARE
OF INTEREST, THEN GREAT, I'M
GOOD WITH LOOKING AT NOTHING, IF
THAT CAN HELP THEM OUT.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE
CARTOGRAPHERS OF THE CROWD ARE
CONSTANTLY LOOKING FOR WAYS TO
AUTOMATE SOME OF THIS
PAINSTAKING WORK, THIS IS ONE
INNOVATION THAT IS ENABLED BY
TECHNOLOGY, BUT DRIVEN BY THE
MOST AMAZING COMPUTER OF ALL:
THE ONE THAT SITS BEHIND OUR
DISCERNING EYES.
>> Woodruff: AND MILES JOINS ME
NOW.
>> Woodruff: MILES, IF THIS
GOES ON, IT'S AMAZING PEOPLE ALL
OVER THE WORLD ARE DOING THIS.
>> YES, YOU CAN BE PART OF THE
SEARCH.
>> Woodruff: SO BACK TO THAT
SEARCH -- AND, YES, WE KNOW
THERE'S BAD WEATHER, YES, WE
KNOW IT'S FAR AWAY FROM
AUSTRALIA WHERE THEY'RE LOOKING,
BUT WHY IS THIS SO HARD?
>> IT'S HARD BECAUSE WE JUST
HAVE SO MUCH DATA.
IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE IN THE
21st CENTURY AN AIRLINER WITH
ALL THE ELECTRONICS AND THE
TECHNOLOGY WE HAVE COULD GO
MISSING WITH SO LITTLE -- YOU
WOULD THINK AT LEAST A TRAIL OF
ELECTRONIC BREAD CRUMBS WOULD
EXIST BUT IT DOESN'T.
THERE ARE ANY NUMBER OF
DIRECTIONS STILL IT COULD HAVE
FLOWN, IT'S STILL NOT GUARANTEED
IT'S IN THAT SPOT.
THE WRECKAGE WE SAW, THE PIECE
THAT'S BEEN RELEASE BID
AUSTRALIA, THAT MIGHT BE JUST
PLAIN OLD DEBRIS.
THERE'S PLENTY OF IT IN THE
OCEAN, WE KNOW THAT.
TO SAY A NEEDLE IN THE HAYSTACK
IS AN UNDERSTATEMENT.
>> Woodruff: T SO THE PINGS FROM
THE SATELLITE COULD BE ANYTHING?
>> IT COULD BE ANYTHING.
YOU'VE TALKED ABOUT THE
MALAYSIAN AIRLINES DECIDED NOT
TO INVEST IN A COMMUNICATIONS
SYSTEM THAT WOULD HAVE SENT MORE
DA BACTAK TO HOME BASE.
EXPLAIN WHAT THAT IS AND WHY.
>> WE ALL KNOW THAT THE RADIO
TRANSMISSIONS THE CREW ENGAGES
IN WITH THE AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
BUT IN ADDITION THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF OTHER CHANNELS OF
COMMUNICATION ON THE MODERN
AIRLINER, WIN IS ACARS, A FAX
MACHINE MEETS EMAIL KIND OF
THING.
IT SPITS OUT A LITTLE BIT OF
INFORMATION ABOUT THE AIRPLANE
ON A ROUTINE BASIS.
IN THIS CASE, IT WAS NOT AS
FREQUENT AS IT WAS IN THE CASE
OF, IF YOU RECALL, THE
AIR FRANCE FLIGHT THAT WENT
MISSING OVER THE MID ATLANTIC
REGIONS A FEW YEARS AGO.
THAT HAD THE UPGRADED ACARS WITH
AN APP ON IT WHICH ACTUALLY
PROVIDED MUCH MORE INFORMATION,
MUCH MORE FREQUENTLY AND AIDED
THE SEARCHES BECAUSE THEY NEW
BETTER WHERE IT WAS AND WHAT THE
CONDITION OF THE AIRCRAFT YOUS.
IN THIS CASE, THEY DIDN'T HAVE
IT AND IT REALLY IS A VERY
INEXPENSIVE THING TO ADD ON.
IT'S LIKE $10 PER FLIGHT.
>> Woodruff: SO WE WOULD HAVE
A LOT MORE INFORMATION?
>> WE WOULD KNOW MUCH BETTER
WHAT DIRECTION THE PLANE WAS IN.
>> Woodruff: FINAL ANALYSIS,
WHERE IS THE GREATEST HOPE IN
FINDING OUT WHAT HAPPENED?
>> WE'LL NEED A LITTLE LUCK, I
THINK.
WE'LL NEED LUCK WITH THE
WEATHER.
LET'S HOPE, FRANKLY, WHAT THE
SATELLITE SAW WERE IN FACT
PIECES OF THE AIRCRAFT BECAUSE
THAT GIVES THEM SOMETHING TO GO
ON.
WITHOUT DEBRIS, THERE'S REALLY
VERY LITTLE CHANCE THEY WILL
FIND THIS.
IT'S A BIG OCEAN AND BIG PLANET
AND YOU CAN'T GO EVERY WHICH WAY
TRYING TO FIND A POTENTIAL
DEBRIS PATTERN.
SO LET'S HOPE FOR GOOD WEATHER,
FOR STARTERS.
>> Woodruff: MILES O'BRIEN,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GREAT TO HAVE YOU WITH US.
A NEW REPORT SPELLS OUT THE
SCOPE OF A PROBLEM WITH ACCESS,
OPPORTUNITY AND DISCIPLINE IN
PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN THE UNITED
STATES.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN ALMOST 15
YEARS, THE DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION HAS PUBLISHED DATA ON
THIS SUBJECT FROM ALL 97,000
PUBLIC SCHOOLS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY AND THE FINDINGS
HIGHLIGHT BIG PATTERNS OF
DISPARITY BY RACE.
HARI SREENIVASAN IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIO HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FINDINGS
COVER A WIDE SPECTRUM OF ISSUES:
AFRICAN AMERICAN AND LATINO
STUDENTS WHO AREN'T EVEN OFFERED
SOME ESSENTIAL COURSES IN MATH
AND SCIENCE, TOO MANY KIDS
TAUGHT BY INEXPERIENCED TEACHERS
AND A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF
SUSPENSIONS AMONG STUDENTS OF
COLOR.
CATHERINE LHAMON IS ASSISTANT
SECRETARY IN THE OFFICE FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS AT THE DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION WHO WORKED ON THIS
SURVEY.
SHE JOINS ME NOW.
SO THIS IS THE FIRST YEAR YOU
BEGAN TRACKING PRE-SCHOOL
SUSPENSIONS AND IN FACT IT
GRABBED A LOT OF HEADLINES TODAY
WHERE AFRICAN-AMERICAN CHILDREN
COMPRISE 18% OF ALL THOSE
ENROLLED BUT ACCOUNT FOR NEARLY
HALF OF ALL SUSPENSIONS.
YOU KNOW, FRANKLY, I DIDN'T EVEN
KNOW YOU COULD GET SUSPENDED IN
PRE-SCHOOL.
HOW DOES SOMEONE GET SUSPENDED
AND REALLY WHAT DOES THIS MEAN
FOR THEM DOWN THE LINE?
>> YOU KNOW, HARI, WE FEEL THE
SAME LEVEL OF SHOCK THAT YOU
EXPERIENCE.
I CANNOT UNDERSTAND HOW WE SEE
THOUSANDS OF CHILDREN SUSPENDED
AT THREE AND FOUR YEARS OLD FROM
PRE-SCHOOL.
I CAN'T CONCEIVE OF A SITUATION
THAT WOULD ACTUALLY JUSTIFY A
PRE-SCHOOL SUSPENSION.
I AM OFFENDED AS CHIEF LICENSE
ENFORCER AT THE DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION AND AS A MOM OF TWO
LITTLE GIRLS.
I THINK THAT INFORMATION IS
SHOCKING AND SOMETHING THAT YOU
CATEGORICALLY NEED TO END FOR
ALL OF OUR CHILDREN IN ALL OF
OUR SCHOOLS.
>> Reporter: SO DOES THIS
CONTRIBUTE TO THE SCHOOL TO
PRISON PIPELINE?
>> IT ABSOLUTELY DOES AND
PRE-SCHOOL SUSPENSIONS ALSO SEND
UNMISTAKABLE MESSAGE THAT THE
CHILDREN WHO ARE SUSPENDED ARE
NOT WELCOME IN SCHOOL, ARE NOT
KIDS YOU WANT TO SEE IN SCHOOL
AND SCHOOLS AREN'T PREPARED FOR
THEM, SO WE'RE TEACHING THEM AN
APP PALLING LESSON AT THE VERY
BEGINNING OF THEIR EDUCATIONAL
EXPERIENCE ABOUT THEIR WORTH IN
LIFE AND THE SCHOOL'S
PREPAREDNESS FOR THEM.
>> Reporter: BESIDES
PUNISHMENT, IT REVEALS A PATTERN
OF STUDENTS OF COLLAR AND THEIR
TEACHERS.
AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND NATIVE
AMERICAN STUDENTS ATTEND SCHOOLS
WITH A HIGH NUMBER OF WHITE
TEACHERS.
>> IT'S A PICTURE OF INEQUITY
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THE TASK IS TO TRY TO FIGURE OUT
THE WHYS.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT MY STAFF
AND MY OFFICE AND I DO ON A
DAILY BASIS BUT THE GOOD NEWS
ABOUT THIS DATA IS IT'S ALSO
SOMETHING ALL OF US CAN ACCESS.
WE HAVE MADE THIS DATA IN THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, WE'VE MADE
THIS DATA PUBLICLY AVAILABLE,
VERY ACCESSIBLE.
ANY MOM, ANY STUDENT, ANY
RESEARCHER, ANY EDUCATOR, ANY
TEACHER, ANY COMMUNITY MEMBER
ANYWHERE IN THE COUNTRY CAN TAKE
A LOOK AT THE DATA, CAN TRY TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT IT MEANS AND
WHAT NEEDS TO BE CHANGED OR NOT
CHANGED IN THEIR SCHOOLS AND HOW
TO ACT ON IT.
SO I HOPE ALL OF US ARE TAKING
THIS DATA AS A CALL OF ACTION SO
WE CAN SEE GREATER EQUITY IN THE
CONDITIONS IN ALL OUR SCHOOLS.
>> Reporter: IT ALSO POINTS TO
THE FACT THAT THESE INEQUITIES
CONTINUE OVER THE YEARS.
IT'S A QUESTION OF KIDS NOT EVEN
BEING OFFERED THE CLASSES THEY
MAY NEED TO GO ON IN COLLEGE AND
LIFE.
THE REPORT FOUND, WHILE MORE
THAN 80% OF ASIAN-AMERICAN AND
MORE THAN 70% OF WHITE STUDENTS
HAD ACCESS TO FULL RANGE OF MATH
AND SCIENCE COURSES IN HIGH
SCHOOLS, ONLY 67% OF LATINOS
WERE AT SCHOOLS THAT OFFERED A
RANGE OFFADVANCED CLASSES, 57%
FOR AFRICAN-AMERICAN STUDENTS
AND FEWER THAN HALF OF AMERICAN
INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN HIGH
SCHOOL STUDENTS.
WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES OF
STUDENTS COMING OUT OF SCHOOLS
WITHOUT ACCESS TO SAME BASIC
SCIENCE OR MATH EDUCATION?
>> THE CONSEQUENCES ARE
DEVASTATING FOR US AS THE
COUNTRY INCLUDING DEVASTATING
CONSEQUENCES FOR THE KIDS IN
EACH OF THESE SCHOOLS.
WE ARE NOT PREPARING OUR YOUTH
TO BE PRODUCTIVE, FULL MEMBERS
OF SOCIETY AND NOT PREPARING ALL
OF OUR YOUTH ON ALASKA AN EQUAL
BASIS FOR COLLEGE AND CAREER
REDNESS.
WE ARE SEEING DISCREPANCIES THAT
ARE SHOCKING ABOUT THE FULL
ACCESS TO COLLEGE AND
CAREER-READY COURSEWORK IN
SCHOOLS WE NEED TO SEE FOR ALL
OUR KIDS BUT ALSO JUST SHOCKING
DISCREPANCIES IN THE OFFERINGS
OF THESE SCHOOLS OF THESE
COURSES ACROSS THE BOARD.
WE HAVE LEARNED IN THIS DATA
ONLY HALF OF OUR HIGH SCHOOLS IN
THE NATION OFFER CALCULUS.
50% OF OUR HIGH SCHOOLS OFFER
CALCULUS TO ANYONE.
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE
OFFERINGS, WE'RE NOT EVEN
SAYING, YOU KNOW, IS THERE
ENOUGH FOR EVERYBODY WHO WANTS
TO TAKE IT AND IS IT WELL TAUGHT
AND WELL SUPPORTED.
IT'S ANYBODY IN THAT HIGH SCHOOL
AND HIGH SCHOOLS OFTEN HAVE
THOUSANDS OF KIDS IN THEM, DOES
ANYBODY IN THESE SCHOOLS HAVE
ACCESS TO CALCULUS.
THAT'S AMAZING.
>> Reporter: THERE'S BEEN A
PUSH FOR NATIONAL EKE ANY
EDUCATION FOR A LONG TIME.
SUPREME COURT DECISION IN THE
'50s, CIVIL RIGHTS ACTION IN
THE '60s.
WHY ARE WE STILL HAVING THESE
OUTCOMES?
>> VERY FRUSTRATING.
IT'S HARD TO KNOW WHY WE SEE
DISCRIMINATION IN THESE VARIOUS
FORMS.
WHAT WE KNOW IS NOT THAT DOES
DISCRIMINATION EXIST BUT THE
DISPARITIES AND WE NEED TO GET
AT THE WHYS.
THAT'S WHAT WE DO IN THE OFFICE
OF CIVIL RIGHTS WITH THE DATA.
WHEN WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
DISCREPANCIES, WE GO IN AND
INVESTIGATE TO SEE IF THERE'S
MORE THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE AND
CHANGES THAT NEED TO BE MADE AND
THE KINDS OF THINGS WE SEE WHEN
WE DO THE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FOR
EXAMPLE THAT SCHOOL
ADMINISTRATORS THINK THERE ARE
PARTICULAR KIDS IN SCHOOL THAT
CAN'T SUCCEED AND THEY DON'T
OFFER COURSES TO THE KIDS AND
DON'T HAVE IT IN SCHOOLS.
WE ENTER INTO AN AGREEMENT AND
CHANGE THOSE PRACTICE IT IS FOR
KIDS.
BUT IT'S A BIT OF A WELCOME MAT
PROBLEM WHERE WE FIND A PROBLEM
AND CORRECT IT IN ONE PLACE THEN
HAVE TO FIND IT IN ANOTHER.
IT'S TIME FOR US AS A NATION TO
ENTER INTO A DIFFERENT
CONVERSATION AND COMMIT
OURSELVES TO THE EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITY ALL OUR KIDS ARE
ENTITLED TO AND ALLOWS PROMISE
TO ALL OUR KIDS.
>> Reporter: CATHERINE LHAMON,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR OFFICE
OF CIVIL RIGHTS IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
MARK SHIELDS AND NEW YORK
SOMETIMES COLUMNIST DAVID
BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
UKRAINE IS AGAIN THE STORY ON
THE MINDS OF SO MANY NOW.
DAVID, THE PRESIDENT, NOW TWO
ROUNDS OF SANCTIONS AGAINST
VLADIMIR PUTIN, THE RUSSIANS,
WORKING WITH THE ALLIES TO TRY
TO DO SOMETHING, WHAT IS THE
VIEW NOW OF HOW THE PRESIDENT'S
HANDLING THIS?
>> DOING THE JOB HAS BEEN
FORCEFUL, STARTED OUT MAYBE TOO
MODEST SANCTIONS ON PEOPLE,
RATCHETING IT UP.
HE'S BEEN AS FORCEFUL AS HE
COULD BE FACING THE STRENGTH OF
OUR ALLIES IN EUROPE.
HE'S BEEN AGGRESSIVE AND
UNDERSTANDS THE STAKES AND
UNDERSTANDS PUTIN IS NOT JUST
ABOUT CRIMEA OR UKRAINE, BUT
ABOUT THE POST-COLD WAR ORDER.
CAN WE WRITE ORDERS, MESS WITH
IRAN IN OUR EFFORTS TO NOT ALLOW
A NUCLEAR IRAN?
THIS IS A RADIATING THING WHERE
POORNT IS AN AGENT OF DISORDER
AND THING OBAMA UNDERSTANDS THAT
AND HAS RATCHETED UP THE
PRESSURE.
THE ONLY WAY I FAULT HIM, A LOT
OF WHAT WE'RE DEALING WITH IS
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF FEAR, ARE WE
CAUSING PUTIN TO FEAR US.
EARLY RESPONSE TO OUR LIMITED
SANCTIONs ONE OF CONTEMPT AND
NOW WE'RE MORE SERIOUS BUT WE
HAVEN'T SHOCKED HIM WITH A
LITTLE SURGE OF FEAR AND PUTIN
RESPONDS TO FEAR.
>> HOW DO YOU HEAR -- WHAT DO
YOU HEAR AND WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK THERE IS
IN THIS COUNTRY A GREAT PARTISAN
DIVIDE.
I MEAN, I THINK IT'S POSTURING
AND POSING IS A LOT OF CRITICISM
OF THE PRESIDENT WHICH HAS BEEN
A LITTLE INCONSISTENT AND
CONTRADICTORY.
HE'S GONE FROM BIG A M MANIACAL
DICTATOR TO BEING A CRITIC AND
CRITICISM OF REPUBLICANS
PUBLICLY, BUT I DON'T THINK IN A
POLICY SENSE, JUDY, THERE'S ANY
REAL MAJOR DISAGREEMENT ABOUT
WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN DO
AND WHAT OUR OPTIONS ARE.
NOBODY IS TALKING ABOUT MILITARY
ACTION.
THE PRESIDENT DID TAKE THAT OFF
THE TABLE IN THE INTERVIEW WITH
THE DOMESTIC TELEVISION STATION.
BUT I DO THINK THAT SANCTIONS --
IN ORDER FOR SANCTIONS TO WORK,
THEY HAVE TO BE HELD ON BOTH
SIDES AND IT'S NOT ONLY GOING TO
BE DISCOMFORT AND INCONVENIENCE
AND WORSE FOR THE RUSSIANS AND
FOR PUTIN AND HIS PARTICULAR
GROUP, BUT IT'S GOING TO HAVE TO
BE FELT IN THE WEST AS WELL.
THAT'S HOW SANCTIONS DO.
THEY'RE FELT BY THOSE -- THE
PEOPLE WHO IMPOSE THEM ARE ALSO
INCONVENIENCING THEMSELVES AND I
THINK THAT WILL BE A TEST.
>> Woodruff: AND THIS IS ONE
OF THE OCCASIONS YOU START TO
QUESTION, DAVID.
I MEAN, THIS IS IS PRESIDENT
WHO'S STRUGGLING IN PUBLIC
OPINION, LOW FAVORABILITY
RATINGS IN THE LOW 40s.
IS FOREIGN POLICY SOMETHING
TYPICALLY THAT A PRESIDENT CAN
USE TO LIFT OR DOES IT HURT HIM?
CAN IT HURT HIM?
>> IT CAN HELP AND HURT HIM.
WELCOME TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
RIGHT NOW THE COUNTRY DOES NOT
WANT TO BE INVOLVED IN UKRAINE.
THE COUNTRY IS NOT PARTICULARLY
PAYING ATTENTION TO UKRAINE
EXCEPT ON THIS PROGRAM, BUT -- I
HOPE -- BUT IF HE MESSES IT UP
OR IF WE IN THE WEST MESS IT UP
AND WE REALLY DO HAVE A MUCH
MORE DISORDERLY WORLD HERE, THEN
IT COULD SERIOUSLY HURT HIM.
SO, YOU KNOW, FOREIGN POLICY'S
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ELITES
AND THAT'S WHAT THEY DO.
>> YEAH, JUDY, THERE WAS A
PERIOD, YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND,
THE END OF THE COLD WAR WAS A
MOMENT, A PERIOD OF JOY IN THE
WEST, PARTICULARLY IN THE UNITED
STATES.
OUR VALUES PREVAILED, OUR
NEMESIS, THE VILLAIN OF THE
PEACE DISSOLVED, THE SOVIET
UNION.
AND PUTIN AND MANY RUSSIANS,
THIS IS AN ENORMOUS SORE SPOT.
I MEAN, HERE IT IS CALLED THE
GREATEST CATASTROPHE OF THE
20th CENTURY, THE BREAKUP OF
THE SOVIET UNION.
SO WE HAD A UNI-POLAR WORLD IN
WHICH THE UNITED STATES STOOD
SORT OF BY ITSELF.
IT WAS DEALT A SERIOUS BLOW BY
THE UNITED STATES GOING INTO
IR ANDAQ AFGHANISTAN, NEITHER OF
WHICH WORKED OUT AS ARCHITECTS
EXPECTED IT TO, AND I THINK
BARACK OBAMA IS BACK TO A FAR
MORE COLLABORATIVE APPROACH,
WHICH STEAMS IS NOT DRAMATIC,
BUT THAT'S, AS DAVID WAS
DESCREENING IT, BRINGING THE
ALLIES ALONG IS WHAT THIS IS ALL
ABOUT AND IT ALL COMES BACK TO
NATO.
NATO'S ARTICLE 5 IS ATTACK ON
ANY ONE OF SUS AN ATTACK ON ALL
OF US.
>> SOMETIMES YOU JUST HAVE TO DO
SOMETHING A LITTLE CRIESY.
PUTIN DID SOMETHING A LITTLE
CRIESY AND WE'RE, WHOO, WE'RE
NOT GETTING IN FRONT OF THAT
GUY.
OBAMA IS UNLIKELY TO DO
SOMETHING CRAZY AS PUTIN THINKS
THINGS THROUGH WOOF WITH WOOF
LIKE WHAT?
>> I THINK WE'LL GET TO A SPOT
AS THIS ESCALATES, IF UKRAINE
WANTS TO GO WEST, HE'LL
DISMEMBER UKRAINE AND SEEMS TO
ME THAT ARMING UKRAINE AND US
NOT GETTING INVOLVED BUT ARMING
UKRAINE TO KEEP THE RUSSIANS OUT
THERE IS USEFUL AND I THINK
WE'LL HAVE A SERIOUS DEBATE
ABOUT THAT?
>> THE REALITY OF ALL OF THIS IS
CREAMIA WAS TURNED OVER UNDER
GOING BACK 60 YEARS.
WHAT HE IS ABOUT, HE IS A BULLY,
PUTIN, AND HE IS UNPREKICKABLE
AND MATERIAL AND I THINK IT'S
FAIR TO SAY CORRUPT.
>> BREAKING NEWS WOOF WITH WOOF
IT MAY NOT BE GOING OUT ON TOO
MUCH OF A LIMB BUT WE'LL GIVE
YOU CREDIT.
>> WELL, I DON'T WANT TO GET IN
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE NEWS AND
THE --
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW A
PRESIDENT JUGGLES THINGS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THE WHITE
HOUSE IS VERY MUCH ENGAGED IN
THIS WEEK, DAVID, IS TRYING TO
GET MORE PEOPLE TO SIGN UP FOR
THE AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE ACT,
THE HEALTHCARE LAW.
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN APPEARING
ON LESS THAN -- WELL,
ENTERTAINMENT AND SPORTS VENUES.
ESPN, HE DID A SHOW ONLINE AND
ELLEN DEGENERES.
THERE'S BEEN CRITICISM THIS
ISN'T SO PRESIDENTIAL.
THE PRESIDENT SAID, WELL, YOU
KNOW, ABRAHAM LINCOLN DID THIS
KIND OF THING.
HOW FAR CAN A PRESIDENT STRAY
AND BE PRESIDENTIAL?
>> IF HE'S WITH MILEY CYRUS ON
THE WRECKING BALL AND BEYONCE
AND I HAVE BEEN DRINKING, I
THINK THAT'S TOO FALL.
BILL CLINTON DID IT ON ARSENIO
HALL AND PEOPLE WORRIED.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS DIGNITY, SO
HE'S NOT REALLY PUTTING IT AT
RISK.
WHEN HE WENT ON THE SHOW
"BETWEEN TWO FERNS," I'M NOT
SUPERHIP TO IT MYSELF, BUT WEB
TRAFFIC SURGED.
IT'S WORKING FOR THEM.
AND THEY NEED THE YOUNG PEOPLE.
WE'RE AT A STAGE IN THE
HEALTHCARE ENROLLMENT WHERE THEY
HAVE SOME LEGITIMACY.
THEY'RE NOT WHERE THEY WANT TO
BEUT B IT'S SUSTAINABLE.
WHERE THEY AREN'T YET IS WITH
YOUNG PEOPLE, AND THE YOUNG
PEOPLE WILL PAY FOR THIS THING.
SO WHAT THEY HAVE TO DO, ELLEN
DEGENERES OR WHATEVER PLANE YOU
CHOOSE, HE HAS TO DO THAT.
>> A GREAT POLITICAL CONSULTANT
SAYS YOU PICK CHERRIES WHERE
CHERRIES ARE.
YOU DON'T GO TO THE AM OR
CHARRED TO PICK CHERRIES.
THIS IS WHAT BARACK OBAMA IS
DOING.
WE'RE LONG PAST THE DAY WHEN THE
PRESIDENT COULD TALK TO 65% OF
AMERICANS BY GOING ON THE
EVENING NEWS.
THIS IS A NICHE-DRIVEN,
FRAGMENTED, SEGMENTED
TELEVISION-MEDIA MARKET AND, TO
REACH PEOPLE, THEY HAVE SHOWS
THEY WATCH -- I DON'T THINK
BARACK OBAMA COULD BE ACCUSED OF
BEING UNPRESIDENTLE.
I MEAN, HE'S DEALING WITH
UKRAINE, IRAN AND THE ECONOMY,
AND, YOU KNOW, THE IDEA -- I
MEAN, BILL O'REILLY WHO LAUNCHES
PRINCIPAL CRITICISM AGAINST HIM
FOR BEING UNPRESIDENTLE IS A
DOMINANT FIGURE ON CABLE NEWS
AND HE'S SEEN IN EXACTLY 1% OF
HOMES ON A GIVEN NIGHT,
2 MILLION PEOPLE SEE HIM.
SO BARACK OBAMA HAS TO -- I
THINK IF THERE'S A CRITICISM TO
BE MADE THE FAILURE TO SELL THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WHEN IT CAME
OUT.
THERE WAS NO SALES PROGRAM AND
RIGHT NOW THE ADMINISTRATION IS
PAYING FOR IT IN TRYING TO
CONVINCE PEOPLE TO SIGN UP.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICANS THIS
WEEK ARE TALKING MUCH MORE
CONFIDENTLY, DAVID, ABOUT TAKING
OVER CONTROL OF THE SENATE.
SHOULD THEY BE MORE CONFIDENT
NOW?
>> WELL, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
NUMBERS, YES.
SEEMED A COUPLE OF WKSEE AGO
THEY HAD TO HAVE A RUN AND WIN
ALL THE SEATS TO TAKE OVER
CONTROL.
NOW MORE SEATS AT PLAY BECAUSE
OF VARIOUS CANDIDACIES
ELSEWHERE.
YOU LOOK AT THE 34 STATES WHERE
THERE ARE SENATE RACES, 50
REPUBLICAN, 42 DEMOCRAT.
SO THEY'RE NOT DOING GREAT
NATIONALLY, BUT IN THE STATES
WHERE THERE HAPPEN TO BE
ELECTIONS THIS YEAR, THEY'RE
DOING PRETTY WELL.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT THE DATA, THEY
LIKE TO BE FEELING GOOD.
>> Woodruff: SHOULD THEY FEEL
SO GOOD ABOUT IT?
>> THE PROBLEM WITH DEMOCRATS
AND ANY INCUMBENT PARTY THAT'S
HELD THE WHITE HOUSE FOR SIX
YEARS, THERE'S A SIXLE, A
SIX-YEAR ITCH, CALL IT WHAT YOU
WILL.
HOUSE LOST 39 SEATS IN THAT SIX
YEARS.
WHEN WE GO TO A PRESIDENT BELOW
50% APPROVAL RATING AS PRESIDENT
BUSH WAS FOR EXAMPLE IN 2006,
THE DAMAGE TO HIS PARTY BECOMES
GEOMETRICAL.
SO ALL OF A STATES WERE -- FOR
EXAMPLE WEST VIRGINIA WHERE THE
PRESIDENT'S JOB RATING IS IN THE
20s, AND THAT'S A DEMOCRATIC
SEAT THEY'D LIKE TO HOLD ON TO.
THE 30s IN SOUTH DAKOTA,
MONTANA, KENTUCKY, STATES WHERE
THE DEMOCRATS ARE HOPING TO WIN
OR DEFEND SEATS.
SO THAT'S WHAT DEMOCRATS ARE
FIGHTING.
THEY'RE FIGHTING TO RETAIN THEIR
CONTROL OF THE SENATE IN STATES
THAT HAVE BASICALLY RED THAT
MITT ROMNEY CARRIED.
THE REPUBLICANS WILL HAVE A
DECIDED MONEY ADVANTAGE.
THEY OUTSPENT THE DEMOCRATS IN
2012 AND MISSPENT IT.
I DON'T THINK YOU WILL SEE THE
SAME KIND OF MISTAKES MADE THIS
TIME.
>> Woodruff: ONE LAST THING TO
ASK YOU ABOUT, SOMEBODY WHO WAS
A MAJOR FIGURE IN THIS CITY A
LONG TIME, BOB STRAUSS DIED AT
95 THIS WEEK.
HE WAS A POWER BROKER, SOMEBODY
WHO WORKED ACROSS PARTY LINES.
WHAT WAS HIS LEGACY?
>> HE WAS AN INSIDER AND THERE
AREN'T THAT MANY INSIDERS OF
THAT SORT ANYMORE.
HE CAMELOSE C TO RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT AND THEY SAID, YOU'RE
A FIXER LOBBYIST, YOU CAN'T RUN
FOR PRESIDENT.
AND WE'VE HAD A LOT OF
OUTSIDERS, WE GO FOR OUTSIDERS.
BUT I'M IN THE MOOD TO GET AN
INSIDER, A GUY WHO'S A LOBBYIST.
YOU SAID L.B.J. COULD GET
SOMETHING DONE, WELL, STRAUSS
COULD GET SOMETHING DONE.
IF I'M TALKING TO YOU, MR. AND
MRS. AMERICA, VOTE FOR THE
INSIDER NEXT TIME BECAUSE IT IS
A SKILL TO GET THINGS DONE
AROUND HERE.
>> -- CARRIED 14 STATES BETWEEN
THE LAST TWOES
ELECTIONS, PROMISED NOT TO GIVE
THE PARTY A CANDIDATE BUT
INSTEAD TO GIVE THE CANDIDATE A
UNITED PARTY.
HE OVERCAME THE FACTIONS, HE WAS
REMARKABLE, HE WAS FUNNY, HE
CAME FROM WEST TEXAS, ONLY
JEWISH FAMILY IN STAMFORD,
TEXAS.
HE GREW UP IN AN AREA WHERE THEY
THOUGHT HANUKKAH WAS A DUCK
CALL.
MY WIFE WAS FROM THE SAME TOWN,
CHARLIE STRAUSS RAN THE DRY
GOODS STORE THERE.
HE LOVED POLITICS AND LIKED
POLITICAL REPORTERS, HE LOVED
LIFE AND WAS OFFERED THIS
BUSINESS AND HE GAVE THE
DEMOCRATS A WINNING HAND IN 1976
AND WORKED WITH RONALD REAGAN
AND BUSH AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU BOTH.
YOU'RE HERE EVERY FRIDAY.
WE'RE GRATEFUL.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, HOW THE PEOPLE
IN EASTERN UKRAINE ARE REACTING
TO THE RUSSIAN TAKEOVER OF
CRIMEA.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IS
IN DONETSK TONIGHT, WHERE
LOYALTIES TO BOTH UKRAINE AND
RUSSIA RUN DEEP.
>> Warner: SHOPPERS STROLLED
THROUGH THE DONETSK CITI MALL
LAST NIGHT-- A GLEAMING ISLAND
IN THIS GRITTY INDUSTRIAL HUB OF
EASTERN UKRAINE-- TO TUNES OF
PIPED-IN POP MUSIC.
UNTIL, EXACTLY AT 6:30, A SMALL
FLASH MOB OF UKRAINIAN ACTIVISTS
MATERIALIZED, WAVING FLAGS AND
SINGING THE NATIONAL ANTHEM.
BUT THERE WERE ALMOST AS MANY
CAMERAS AS CAROLERS.
AFTERWARD, ORGANIZER DIANA BERG
SAID THESE SMALL-SCALE SHOWS OF
UKRAINIAN IDENTITY AND UNITY
WERE SAFER THAN LARGE
DEMONSTRATIONS.
>> THERE ARE REASONS TO BE
AFRAID AFTER THE 13TH OF MARCH;
WHEN ONE OF US WAS KILLED BY A
PRO-RUSSIAN.
>> Warner: THREAT OF RUSSIAN
INTERVENTION?
>> WHEN WE SEE WHAT IS HAPPENING
IN CRIMEA, OF COURSE THERE IS A
THREAT.
>> Warner: ON MARCH 1st, JUST AS
PUTIN'S TROOPS TOOK OVER CRIMEA,
DUELING PROTESTS ERUPTED IN
SOUTHEASTERN UKRAINE BETWEEN
SUPPORTERS AND OPPONENTS OF
JOINING WITH RUSSIA TOO.
THE DEATH CAME IN THIS MELEE
LAST THURSDAY.
PRO-RUSSIAN PROTESTS CONTINUED
THROUGH LAST WEEKEND, AS
DEMONSTRATORS BRIEFLY OCCUPIED
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
DID YOU HAVE SUCH DIVISIONS
EXIST BEFORE THIS?
>> NEVER.
>> Warner: UNLIKE PREDOMINANTLY
RUSSIAN CRIMEA, THE DONETSK
REGION IS ALMOST EVENLY DIVIDED
BETWEEN ETHNIC RUSSIANS AND
UKRAINIANS, WITH MANY OF MIXED
HERITAGE, WHO HAVE LIVED
PEACEFULLY TOGETHER.
BUT THE WINTER MAIDAN UPRISING
IN KIEV-- TRIGGERING THE OUSTER
OF RUSSIA-BACKED PRESIDENT
VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH-- TAPPED INTO
UNDERCURRENTS THAT HAD SIMMERED
HERE.
>> UKRAINE SOCIETY IS DIVIDED,
WE HAVE WESTERN PEOPLE THAT IS
MORE CLOSE TO EUROPE; WE HAVE
HERE AN EAST THAT IS MORE CLOSE
TO RUSSIA.
UKRAINE IS NOT SO GLOBALIZED, SO
PEOPLE HERE ARE NOT TOLERANT TO
>> Warner:HAT  TINTOLERANCE IS
ROOTED PARTLY IN A POWERFUL
COLLECTIVE MEMORY OF WORLD WAR
II.
SOLDIERS IN EASTERN UKRAINE
FOUGHT AND DIED WITH THE SOVIET
ARMY AGAINST THE GERMANS, WHILE
MANY EASTERNERS SAY SOME IN THE
WEST COLLABORATED WITH THE
NAZIS.
NOW THE NEW GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
AND ITS WESTERN ALLIES FEAR
PUTIN IS TRYING TO EXPLOIT THAT
HISTORY AND THE PRESENT UNREST
AS A PRETEXT TO MOVE ON THIS
PART OF UKRAINE TOO.
IN ANNOUNCING THE INCORPORATION
OF CRIMEA INTO RUSSIA, PUTIN
VOWED AGAIN THAT MOSCOW WILL
PROTECT OPPRESSED ETHNIC
RUSSIANS LIVING ELSEWHERE, BUT
HE INSISTED HE HAS NO DESIGNS ON
SOUTHEASTERN UKRAINE.
>> ( translated ): DO NOT
BELIEVE THOSE WHO TRY TO
FRIGHTEN YOU WITH RUSSIA.
WHO SCREAM THAT CRIMEA WILL BE
FOLLOWED BY OTHER REGIONS.
WE DO NOT WANT THE DIVISION OF
UKRAINE.
>> Warner: DO YOU BELIEVE PUTIN,
WHEN HE SAYS THAT?
>> ( translated ): I THINK HE'S
A SERIOUS POLITICIAN AND HIS
STATEMENTS SHOULD BE BACKED UP
BY HIS ACTIONS.
BUT I DO NOT KNOW THE MAN.
>> Warner: METALS MAGNATE SERGEY
TARUTA WAS APPOINTED GOVERNOR OF
THE DONETSK REGION TWO WEEKS AGO
BY THE NEW KIEV GOVERNMENT.
THE BILLIONAIRE OLIGARCH'S FIRST
JOB: RESTORE QUIET TO THE
STREETS
>> ( translated ): WHEN I
ARRIVED THIS BUILDING WAS
BLOCKED AND THE RUSSIAN FLAG WAS
FLYING ON THE ROOF.
TODAY THE SITUATION IS QUITE
DIFFERENT: THE SQUARES ARE EMPTY
AND THAT IS A RESULT OF THE WORK
THAT'S BEEN DONE IN TWO WEEKS.
>> PART OF THE PEOPLE IN PROTEST
ARE RUSSIAN BORN, NOT NATIVES.
OUR SECURITY APPARATUS CAME TO
THE CONCLUSION, NOTICING THE
PRESENCE OF NUMEROUS RUSSIAN
TOURISTS.
>> HE WAS SO ALARMED BY RUSSIA'S
DESIGNS HE PAID FOR AN INSURANCE
POLICY OUT OF HIS OWN FAMILY'S
POCKET.
>> ( translated ): THIS IS A
LINE THEY WILL NOT CROSS.
>> Warner: THIS IS THE LINE HE'S
TALKING ABOUT CARVED INTO THIS
VAST PLAIN, THE SITE OF EPIC
TANK BATTLES DURING WORLD WAR
II: AN EIGHT-FOOT-WIDE, EIGHT-
FOOT-DEEP TRENCH THE GOVERNOR
AND HIS BROTHER HAD BUILT ALONG
DONETSK'S ENTIRE 90-MILE-LONG
BORDER WITH RUSSIA.
FARMER YEVGENIY VOEDENKO, WHO
LEFT HIS HOG WALLOW TO TAKE US
TO THE TRENCH LINE, BELIEVES
PUTIN IS UP TO NO GOOD.
DOES THIS PROTECT YOU?
>> ( translated ): I DON'T KNOW,
THE MODERN TANKS WOULD CROSS
THIS EASILY.
WE'RE FEARFUL.
THE FUTURE IS UNCERTAIN.
>> Warner: BUT THERE ARE FORCES
ALREADY INSIDE THIS LINE THAT
THREATEN THE STABILITY OF
UKRAINE.
DONBASS NEWS WEBSITE EDITOR
OLEKSIY MATSUKA SAYS THERE IS
SUBSTANTIAL PRO-RUSSIA FEELING
HERE TOO, FED IN LARGE PART BY
ECONOMIC DISPARITIES.
>> THE EAST-WEST DIVISION IS
PROFITABLE FOR THE POLITICIANS.
>> THIS INDUSTRIAL HEARTLAND
AREA GENERATES ONE-QUARTER OF
UKRAINE'S GDP YET MANY WORKERS
LIVE IN MISERABLE CONDITIONS.
THE RESULT OF CORRUPTION AND
GOVERNMENT NEGLECT.
JUST NORTH OF DONETSK WHERE COAL
MINES DOT THE LAND, WE MET THIS
25-YEAR-OLD, A THIRD-GENERATION
MINER WHOSE GRANDPARENTS PROVED
HERE DURING THE SOVIET ERA OF
LIFETIME JOBS.
>> ( translated ): SALARIES AND
LIFE STANDARDS WERE MUCH HIGHER
THEN.
BUT IN 20 YEARS OF INDEPENDENT
UKRAINE EVERYTHING WAS
DESTROYED.
AND WHEN I AM ASKED WHAT KIND OF
SALARY I HAVE, I AM ASHAMED TO
TELL.
WE ARE NOT LIVING HERE, JUST
SURVIVING.
>> Warner: DO YOU FEEL THAT YOUR
LIFE WOULD BE BETTER, IF THIS
REGION WOULD BE PART OF RUSSIA?
>> ( translated ): I THINK YES
FROM THE ECONOMIC STAND POINT OF
VIEW.
>> Warner: BUT THAT NOSTALGIA
FOR MORE SECURE DAYS IS NOT
SHARED BY MANY YOUNG PEOPLE,
SAYS EDITOR ALEKSEY MATSUKA.
HE SEES A LARGE GENERATIONAL
DIVIDE BETWEEN YOUNG PEOPLE WHO
CAME OF AGE AFTER UKRAINE BROKE
FREE OF THE COLLAPSED SOVIET
UNION IN 1991 AND THEIR PARENTS
AND GRANDPARENTS.
>> ( translated ): THEY ARE
FORGETTING ABOUT THE GULAGS, THE
REPRESSION AND DEATH.
IT'S SELECTIVE MEMORY OR DOUBLE
STANDARD.
>> Warner: WHATEVER THE MYRIAD
CAUSES, THIS VITAL SOUTHEAST
PART OF UKRAINE REMAINS A
TINDERBOX.
ALEKSANDR, WHO WOULDN'T GIVE HIS
LAST NAME, IS THE SELF-STYLED
LEADER OF A PRO-RUSSIA ROADBLOCK
BRIGADE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR
VEHICLES CARRYING WHAT HE CALLS
INSTIGATORS FROM THE WEST.
HE FERRIED US TO TWO LOOKOUTS
NEAR THE CITY, ONE NEAR A
CROSSROADS AND ANOTHER NEXT TO A
UKRAINIAN POLICE TRAFFIC
OUTPOST.
>> ( translated ): THE BIG
MISTAKE KIEV MADE KIEV CANNOT
THREATEN OUR BLOOD TIES WITH
RUSSIA.
LET US DECIDE OUR OWN FUTURE.
>> Warner: BACK IN THE CITY,
DONETSK UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR
KIRILL CHERKASHIN DEVOTES HIS
FREE TIME TO COORDINATING THE
PRO-RUSSIA DEMONSTRATIONS.
HE SAYS HIS FEELINGS OF
SEPARATISM HAVE GROWN.
>> ( translated ): I ACTUALLY
ALWAYS THOUGHT OF MYSELF AS
BEING RUSSIAN AND I ALWAYS
THOUGHT THAT UKRAINE SHOULD
INTEGRATE WITHIN RUSSIA; NOW I
THINK IT SHOULD BE OUR PART OF
UKRAINE FIRST.
>> Warner: DEMONSTRATIONS BY
LOCALS ARE NOT DIFFICULT TO
ORGANIZE, HE SAID, AND HE
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THERE ARE
RUSSIANS INVOLVED TOO, WHO OFTEN
EGG ON THE CROWDS.
>> ( translated ): YES, THERE
ARE SOME PEOPLE COMING FROM
RUSSIA, THEY ARE EXTREMISTS THAT
JUST LOVE TO DO REVOLUTION
INSIDE THEIR OWN COUNTRY.
PEOPLE ARE BECOMING QUITE
AGGRESSIVE.
WE CAN STOP IT IF OUR GOVERNMENT
WOULD LISTEN TO THEIR PEOPLE.
BUT I PREDICT THIS WEEKEND WE
WILL SEE MORE VIOLENT CLASHES.
>> Warner: AN OMINOUS FORECAST
FROM A REGION OF UKRAINE NOT
KNOWN FOR SUCH STRIFE BEFORE.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
CELEBRATED IRISH AUTHOR PICKS UP
THE MANTLE OF AN AMERICAN MASTER
OF CRIME FICTION.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: IT'S BEEN MORE THAN
50 YEARS SINCE THE DEATH OF
RAYMOND CHANDLER BUT HIS
TRADEMARK AND RADIANCE ARE
SUDDENLY BACK IN FULL.
1950s LOS ANGELES, THE
HOLLYWOOD STARS, UNDERWORLD,
DEAD BODIES AND PRIVATE EYE
PHILLIP MARLOW, ONE OF THE GREAT
CHARACTERS IN AMERICAN FICTION.
ALL OF THIS FOUND IN THE NEW
CRIME MODEL "THE BLACK-EYED
BLONDE," THE AUTHOR BENJAMIN
BLACK, SERIES BY ACCLAIMED IRISH
WRITER JOHN BANVILLE.
WELCOME.
>> GLAD TO BE HERE.
>> Brown: THIS IS CONFUSING.
WE HAVE JOHN BANVILLE DOING
BENJAMIN BLACK DOING RAYMOND
CHANDLER.
WHO IS SITTING HERE WITH ME?
>> IT'S BANVILLE, OF COURSE.
I MEAN, IT'S JUST ME.
I INVENT THESE OTHER VOICES.
BUT NONE OF US IS A SINGULAR
BEING.
WE ALL INVENT VERSIONS OF
OURSELVES.
>> Brown: PART OF WHAT YOU DO
ANYWHERE AS A WRITER?
>> YES.
>> Brown: WHAT ATTRACTED YOU
TO TAKING ON PHILLIP PARTICULAR?
>> I HAVE BEEN WRITING SINCE MY
EARLY TEENS.
HE'S A WONDERFUL WRITER,
INVENTED A NEW KIND OF FICTION.
HE BROUGHT THE CRIME NOVEL UP TO
THE LEVEL OF LITERATURE AND
ABOVE, ALSO WONDERFULLY
ENTERTAINING AND ACCOMMODATING.
HE NEVER DESPISED THEIR WRITINGS
LIKE MANY OF THE AUTHORS DO.
LIKE THEY COULDN'T BE WRITTEN BY
MERE MORE TALLS.
I ALWAYS HATED THAT.
PEOPLE WHO ARE, AS CHANDLER SAID
HIMSELF, YOU KNOW, WHAT HE
WANTED TO DO IS WRITE THE KIND
OF FICTION THAT IT WOULD BE
VERY, VERY GOOD AND THEY WOULD
GET IT.
SO HE DIDN'T WRITE DOWN, HE
WROTE UP.
>> Brown: HOW DO YOU DO IT
WITHOUT OVERDOING IT?
HOW TO CHANNEL HIS STYLE WITHOUT
MAKING US FEEL THAT THAT'S, YOU
KNOW, ALL WE'RE READING IS THIS
SORT OF --
>> WELL, WHEN I STARTED OUT TO
DO THE BOOK, I THOUGHT I WAS
GOING TO UPDATE MARLOW, MAKE IT
MORE CONTEMPORARY, GIVE HIM A
HARDER EDGE.
THEN I WENT BACK AND REREAD THE
BOOKS AND SAID WHY SHOULD I
INTERFERE WITH THIS?
THIS IS WONDERFUL.
THIS IS A MARVELOUS CHARACTER.
HE'S SLIGHTLY OLD FASHIONED BUT
THERE'S NOTHING WRONG WITH THAT.
HE'S IN A WAY A CONSTRUCTED
ROMANTIC AS I AM MYSELF AS I
SUSPECT EVERYBODY IS THOUGH
NOWADAYS WE HAVE TO PRETEND
OTHERWISE.
SO A MARVELOUS CHARACTER AND I
JUST SLIP INTO A CHANDLER VOICE.
IT WAS EASIER THAN I THOUGHT IT
WOULD BE.
>> Brown: TO CAPTURE THE
SPECIFIC SENSE OF PLACE, THE
VERY CHECK LOS ANGELES.
HE HELPED DEFINE LOS ANGELES FOR
MANY OF US.
>> HE DID.
HE INVENTED LOS ANGELES.
WHEN DEMOKOV MOVED FROM EUROPE
TO AMERICA HE SAID I SPENT THE
FIRST HALF OF MY CAREER
INVENTING EUROPE NOW I WILL HAVE
TO INVENT ANOTHER CONTINENT.
THAT'S WHAT WRITERS DO, WE
INVENT PLACES.
CHANDLER'S AND MARLOW'S
LOS ANGELES IS AN INVENTED
PLACE, A WONDERFULLY CONVINCING
BUT INVENTED PLACE.
>> Brown: SO SOME PART OF THIS
IS JOHN BANVILLE REINVENTING --
>> IT HAS TO BE.
>> Brown: -- CHANDLER'S
LOS ANGELES?
>> IT HAS TO BE.
MY LOS ANGELES IS A LOS ANGELES
OF THE INSIDE OF MY HEAD, AND MY
MARLOW IS SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT TO
CHANDLER'S IN THAT HE'S --
CHANDLER ALWAYS FELT THAT HE HAD
TO MAKE MARLOW SLIGHTLY BRUTAL
BECAUSE HE WAS WRITING CRIME
FICTION.
DIDN'T HAVE TO DO THAT.
I SEE MARLOW AS ESSENTIALLY A
MELOMEL LAIN COLLIE.
HE HAS NO FAMILY, NO FRIENDS,
EVERYONE BETRAYS HIM, SO HE IS
LONELY.
>> Brown: YOU USED THE SYNONYM
BENJAMIN BLACK FOR YOUR CRIME
FICTION.
I READ WHERE YOU SAID IT IS
EASIER WRITING AS BENJAMIN BLACK
THAN JOHN BANVILLE.
IS IT THE STYLE OF WRITING
THAT'S EASIER OR TAKING ON
ANOTHER PERSONA.
>> WE AS CRIME WRITERS GET VERY,
VERY CROSS WHEN WE SAY THAT.
IT'S A DIFFERENT WAY OF WRITING.
I WRITE MORE QUICKLY AS BENJAMIN
BLACK, MORE SPONTANEOUSLY.
I SAY TO MYSELF, DON'T PAUSE
OVER A SENTENCE OR TRY TO GET
EVERYTHING RIGHT, JUST BE
SPONTANEOUS AND KEEP GOING
REASO.>> Brown: THAT'S DIFFERENT
THAN THE OTHER WRITING?
>> BENJAMIN BLACK SAYS DON'T
LOOK DOWN OR PAUSE, JUST KEEP
GOING TO THE END.
BENJAMIN IS A MOLE.
TWO ENTIRELY DIFFERENT WAYS OF
WORKING BUT BLACK IS NOT EASIER
THAN VANDAL, IT'S JUST A
DIFFERENT WAY OF DOING IT.
>> Brown: THE BLACK-EYED
BLONDE, JOHN BANVILLE, BENJAMIN
BLACK.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS
OF THE DAY.
THE SEARCH FOR THE MISSING
MALAYSIAN JETLINER AGAIN TURNED
UP NOTHING, DESPITE YESTERDAY'S
REPORTS OF POSSIBLE DEBRIS IN
THE SOUTHERN INDIAN OCEAN, AND
RUSSIA COMPLETED THE FORMAL
ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA, AS THE
EUROPEAN UNION SIGNED AN
AGREEMENT FOR CLOSER TIES WITH
UKRAINE.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, WHAT ARE THE FACES OF
AMERICAN COOL?
THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY
WHITTLED DOWN IMAGES FROM
HISTORY TO COME UP WITH 100
ICONS THAT IT SAYS DEFINE WHAT
IT MEANS TO BE COOL, FROM JAMES
DEAN TO JOAN DIDION.
YOU CAN FIND SOME OF THOSE
PHOTOS ON OUR ART BEAT PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
WASHINGTON WEEK, WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> UKRAINE SPILLOVER HOW OUR
FRACTURED RELATIONSHIP WITH
RUSSIA CHOWLD CHANGE EVERYTHING
AND ON THE HOME FRONT WHY
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS ARE
WORRIED ABOUT MID TERM
ELECTIONS.
WE EXPLAIN IT ALL LATER TONIGHT
ON WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND LOOKS AT
HOW THE DUTCH HAVE MANAGED THE
SALE OF MARIJUANA OVER THE
YEARS, AND WHAT IT COULD MEAN
FOR STATES LIKE COLORADO WHICH
HAVE LEGALIZED RECREATIONAL USE.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY WITH MARGARET WARNER
IN UKRAINE AS SHE MAKES HER WAY
WEST TO THE CAPITAL, KIEV.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOOUFF.DR
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.